---
title: Certified SAT solving with GPU accelerated inprocessing
description: 
tags:
  - 论文阅读笔记/
  - Paper/
date: 2025-03-15
lastmod: 2025-03-15
draft: true
zotero-key: M38J8S9V
zt-attachments:
  - "842"
citekey: osamaCertifiedSATSolving2024
---
> [!tldr]
> 
> [文章链接](https://link.springer.com/10.1007/s10703-023-00432-z)
>  
# Certified SAT solving with GPU accelerated inprocessing

> [!summary] 
> 
> Since 2013, the leading SAT solvers in SAT competitions all use inprocessing, which, unlike preprocessing, interleaves search with simpliﬁcations. However, inprocessing is typically a performance bottleneck, in particular for hard or large formulas. In this work, we introduce the ﬁrst attempt to parallelize inprocessing on GPU architectures. As one of the main challenges in GPU programming is memory locality, we present new compact data structures and devise a data-parallel garbage collector. It runs in parallel on the GPU to reduce memory consumption and improve memory locality. Our new parallel variable elimination algorithm is roughly twice as fast as previous work. Moreover, we augment the variable elimination with the ﬁrst parallel algorithm for functional dependency extraction in an attempt to ﬁnd more logical gates to eliminate that cannot be found with syntactic approaches. We present a novel algorithm to generate clausal proofs in parallel to validate all simpliﬁcations running on the GPU besides the CDCL search, giving high credibility to our solver and its use in critical applications such as model checkers. In experiments, our new solver ParaFROST solves numerous benchmarks faster on the GPU than its sequential counterparts. With functional dependency extraction, inprocessing in ParaFROST was more effective in reducing the solving time. Last but not least, all proofs generated by ParaFROST were successfully veriﬁed.
> 